---
layout: post
title: Leetcode and How to Find Talents
date: 2022-10-10
description: tricks and tips
tags: Thoughts
categories: Thoughts
---

A lot of people are talking about leetcode problem solving these days. If you go to the popular Chinese oversea BBS website, you can find literally under every post there are people talking about solving leetcode problems. In this blog, I want to share my two cents on this issue. 

I personally don't like solving leetcode problems which I guess most people share with my feelings. I don't take any pride in being ranked as the top K problem solver. My opinion is that it's huge waste of time. There are definitely some good parts in doing this. If you're not familiar with a programming langauge, you can learn a bit from good solutions in the disucssion section. Through solving the problem, you'll get familiar with the specific programming language you use. Through the thinking process, you'll learn how to convert logics into codes. 

However, focusing on these `Fake` problems will cost a person gigantic amount of time. There are more important things to learn. In my opinion, a pragmatic engineer should focus on the following four quadrants to improve himself:
- Technical skills. A good understanding of a wide range of topics such as ML, system design etc.
- Real problem solving skills. When tasked with a real problem, which is the best route to solve the challenge. 
- Communication skills. How to use concise and precise words to convey your ideas and onboard others with your thoughts. 
- Business acumen. How customers can get benefits from our product, what's our moat, and is our solution going to bring revenue to company. 

At the end of the day, we want to ask ourselves what kind of innovations/changes we have brought to this world. In my view, that's what defines our value. In the meanwhile, I feel it's a lot more fun in solving the real world problem and tackle the real issues. 


All big techs today are relying on leetcode to select best talents which, in my opinion, is quite unfortunate.(To be continued)







